# LoRaWAN Security #

There have been many discussion recently concerning the security of LoraWAN with the publication of articles such as this, this, and that. These articles point to the fact that LoraWAN, the most widely used network module for IoT is not sufficiently secure and that there needs to be further improvements. The academic community needs to be involved in the improvement of such an integral network design. However, the lack of a LoraWAN simulator software with security features makes it difficult for those who want to research various security techniques and contribute to the field, but do not have the necessary resources to afford the physical devices. I attempted to fix this issue.
The purpose of this project is to add security features (specified by the official guideline, see https://lora-alliance.org/sites/default/files/2018-04/lorawantm_specification_-v1.1.pdf) to the LoraWAN module so that various security measures can be tested using the module and the implications of such measurements (latency, network delay, packet loss, etc.) be quantified. However, by the nature of simulation, it is not advised to equate the simulator to an actual device in terms of security as there are more ways to break into the actual device. In particular, the project is meant to…
Since there should be an option to run the simulator without security features (so that the security features can be tested against it), I added “secure” components to the module; I did not update existing ones. The ones I added start with “secure”, such as “secure-end-device-lorawan-mac.cc”, and they implement the security features as outlined by the specifications. 

If a frame header carries FOpts, FOpts MUST be encrypted before the message integrity 679code (MIC) is calculated.
Encryption and decryption of the FOptsis done by truncating (pld| pad16) xor S tothe first 692len(pld) octets
If a data frame carries a payload, FRMPayloadMUST be encrypted before the message 739integrity code (MIC) is calculated. Therefore, the lora-mac-header.
More details on this design can be found at https://lora-alliance.org/sites/default/files/2018-04/lorawantm_specification_-v1.1.pdf
The join mechanism that is detailed here: https://act-on.ioactive.com/acton/attachment/34793/f-87b45f5f-f181-44fc-82a8-8e53c501dc4e/1/-/-/-/-/LoRaWAN%20Networks%20Susceptible%20to%20Hacking.pdf
Susceptible to MitM attack. How much does a prevention cost?
